docs: deeplinking updates (#740)
unoplatform/Uno.Wasm.Bootstrap: doc/features-deep-linking.md

---
uid: UnoWasmBootstrap.Features.DeepLinking
---

# Support for deep-linking (routes)

> Deep-linking enables the path part of the URI to indicate a location which should be navigated to. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Deep-linking enables the path part of the URI to indicate a location that should be navigated to. 
```

> [!TIP]

> > This feature is colloquially referred to as _routes_ in the web development world.

Reviewer 2: routes refers to the different pathings, routing is the entire setup
plus the latter term is more googlable
```suggestion
> This feature is colloquially referred to as _routing_ in the web development world.
```

> ## Use in applications

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Use in Uno Platform applications
```

> ## Use in Uno Platform applications
> 
> Apps using deep-linking typically parse the URI as part of a robust navigation system. No longer is access to resources on discrete pages complicated by repetitive UI steps. Instead, these areas can be navigated to directly from a link in an email, a bookmark, or another website. When planning the capabilities of your application, it is important to decide whether common scenarios necessitate deep-linking. 
> 
> If so, consider a navigation [system](xref:Overview.Navigation) that allows for mapping route names to specific sectors of UI elements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Use in Uno Platform applications

Apps using deep-linking typically parse the URI as part of a robust navigation system. No longer is access to resources on discrete pages complicated by repetitive UI steps. Instead, these areas can be navigated directly from a link in an email, a bookmark, or another website. When planning the capabilities of your application, it is essential to decide whether common scenarios necessitate deep-linking. 

If so, consider a navigation [system](xref:Overview.Navigation) that allows mapping route names to specific sectors of UI elements.
```

## Configure deep-linking

> This feature is enabled by default in new projects generated from the `unoapp` template with version 4.9 or later. Certain cases may require disabling this feature, such as when the application is hosted in a subdirectory of the host.

Reviewer 2: Is there a workaround for these cases? if the user wishes to support url like: www.example.com/segment1/my-awesome-page?ref=null

> This feature is enabled by default in new projects generated from the `unoapp` template with version 4.9 or later. Certain cases may require disabling this feature, such as when the application is hosted in a subdirectory of the host.
> 
> Disabling deep-linking is done by removing the `WasmShellWebAppBasePath` property from the `.csproj` file. 
> 
> ### Enable deep-linking
> 
> If missing, add the following parameter to your project file to enable deep-linking:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This feature is enabled by default in new projects generated from the `unoapp` template with version 4.9 or later.

Certain cases may require disabling this feature, such as when the application is hosted in a subdirectory of the host. This can be done by removing the `WasmShellWebAppBasePath` property from the `.csproj` file.

For project created from older template, add the following parameter to your project file to enable deep-linking:
```

```xml
<PropertyGroup>
  <WasmShellWebAppBasePath>/</WasmShellWebAppBasePath>
</PropertyGroup>
```

### Build-time configuration

This parameter can be configured on build by using a command-line parameter as follows:

```bash

> dotnet build "/p:WasmShellWebAppBasePath=/"

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
dotnet build "-p:WasmShellWebAppBasePath=/"
```

}
```

### Anchor based navigation

> When deep-linking is disabled, anchor-based navigation remains supported, as it does not impact the path part of the URI.

Reviewer 2: I assume that you are talking about the default `#anchor` support from browsers.
Should we clarify this is for wasm only?

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When deep-linking is disabled, [anchor-based navigation](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/a#linking_to_an_element_on_the_same_page) remains supported, as it does not impact the path part of the URI.
```
